README.md, before:

CONFIGURATION INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------------
This project is meant to be a small stand alone scrip with no specific
configuration requirement other than having Python 2.7 intalled and running.


INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS
-------------------------
A 'requirements.txt' has been included ( as good practice ), but has been left
empty on purpose, since the script 'process_new_contacts.py' uses all facilities
from the Python standard library and on additional packages will have to be
installed, locally, for the script to work successfully.


A 'test-requirements.txt' has been included ( as good practice ).  These
packages are meant to be installed only in a local, testing environment, and not
meant to be part of the production stack requirements.  These are not necessary
to run the unittests, but thought I should inclue reference to nose, pep8, and
pylint.


OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS
----------------------
The 'process_new_contacts.py' script is designed to be executed at the command
line, but the feature which allows you to pass parameters at the command line
has been disabled.  It is commented out on the code ( It has one known bug,
which is detailed in the 'KNOWN BUGS' section below. ), please feel free to
activate it an use it at will.

The 'input_file' and 'output_file' variables have been hard-coded as such:

    input_file = 'new_contacts.csv'
    output_file = 'new_contacts.json'


WHAT the CODE DOES
------------------
The script takes and existing comma delimed file and iterates through its
records, applies various rules to determine if the record is valid, and converts
and dumps only valid records to a JSON object.

Sample data from the csv file looks like this:

    Julian, Fanning, 82820, 555 11111 11111111, red
    Earlene Merryman, blue, 86258, 305 987 8362
    Theodora Whipkey, red, 54450, 808 633 1734
    Butterfield, Kelsi, (967)-196-4953, yellow, 05644
    Mccaster, Fatimah, (854)-345-7518, gray, 57693
    Mirian, Hankey, 22172, 180 739 1295, aqua marine
    Reinaldo, Vandermeer, 76589, 751 665 5618, gray
    Theo Parrish, green, 60128, 423 334 3136
    0.429926275625
    c

The resulting JSON object is then dumped to a file, and looks like this:

    {
    "errors": [
    5,
    7,
    16,
    31,
    39,
    40,
    43,
    45,
    46,
    47,
    49,
    50,
    58,
    59
    ],
    "entries": [
         {
          "middle": " ",
          "firstname": "Noah",
          "color": "yellow",
          "lastname": "Moench",
          "telephone": "2326952394",
          "zipcode": "123123121"
         },
         {
          "middle": " ",
          "firstname": "Ria",
          "color": "aquamarine",
          "lastname": "Tillotson",
          "telephone": "1969105548",
          "zipcode": "97671"
         },
         ...
        ]
    }

The generated JSON object can be validated via wwww.jsonlint.com


KNOWN BUGS
----------
In scritp 'processs_new_contacts.py' the breaks in the following code were
causign the script to not run.  The were commented out but not removed as they
should be there.

    if len(clean_r) < 4 or len(clean_r) > 5:
        print('This record is not the valid length. It will not be processed.')
        print('Here is the value you passed: ' + str(len(clean_r)))
        #break  TODO: COME BACK TO THIS!!!

    *********

    if len(name) < 1 or len(name) > 3:
        #print(len(name))
        #print(name)
        print('This name is not the valid length. \
               It will not be processed.')
        print('Here is the name you passed: ' + str(name))
        # break

    *********

    elif len(clean_r[p]) == 10:
        one_r['telephone'] = clean_r[p]
        #print('telephone: ' + str(one_r['telephone']))
        #print(one_r)
    else:
        print('this record does not contain a valid phone number, \
               zip code, or color. It will not be processed.')
               print('Here is the value you passed: ' + str(clean_r[p]) + "\n")
        #break from processing the remaining positions on the list
        #when one of the values passed isn't valid
        #break

The reason why they should be there is that the current logic will not process a
record if one or more of the elements being passed fails the validation.  The
break here ensures the rest of the record isn't iterated through, because that
is a waste of CPU cycles ( though that is negligable when processing a file this
size, it does make a difference whe processing larger data files, or processing
data on across multiple physical and memory nodes ).  Even though the breaks are
commented out the record will not be passed to the final JSON object for
comsumption by a client.

Sample output to the console for each record that fails to process looks like
this:

    Record is not a valid length.
    [5]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31]
    Record is not a valid length.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Record is not a valid length.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Record is not a valid length.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45]
    Record is not a valid length.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46, 47]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46, 47, 49]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46, 47, 49, 50]
    Record is not a valid length.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46, 47, 49, 50, 58]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46, 47, 49, 50, 58, 59]

The persistance of the data construct position ( e.g. [5] ), shows the record
number which has failed processing.  It is the last  number in this list which
will tell what current record failed as the messages are shown on the console.

The accompanying line tells what the issue was.  As you can see here the
'details need to be hasseled', as the message tells the data being validated by
this part of the code is not in the expected format, but it's hard to tell what
specific data type failed validation.

In addition, the validation algorithm should stop processing the immediate
record and move on to the next as soon as it finds an error.  Here, as you can
see, it finds an error but moves on to the next position in the data construct -
this is detailed as a bug in the "KNOW BUGS" section above.


TESTING METHODOLOGY
-------------------
The bulk of the unittests focus on testing the functionality in 'get_clean_data'
and 'process_contacts'; these funcitons are called by the 'process_contacts'.
The major data transformation scenarios are handled and documented in the tests
themselves.

Normally when testing a scrip like this I would use Mock methods handle the
parts of the test which have to do with opening files for data processing,
but since it's the methods outside of the 'process_contacts' function, I saw
it save for this small example to ommit the mocking from testing.  However, in
practice, this part of the code should be properly mocked and tested.


WAYS TO IMPROVE ON THIS CODE
----------------------------
(1) Currently the test coverage is at 72%.  I will be coming back to this
project shortly to get the coverage up to 100%.

(2) Fix known bugs detailed above in the "Known Bugs" section.

(3) Update the "WHAT THE CODE DOES" section of this README file so that it
explains a little bit more about the limitations and expectations whe processing
the project's accompanying csv file.

(4) Spelling. Probably fix spelling in this README file.  The more time I spend
coding the worse I seem to get at spelling. No matter how many times I proof, I
always miss something.


COPYRIGHT and LICENSING
-----------------------
Use and extend at will - credit the author.


TROUBLESHOOTING
---------------
All print statements were left commented out but still in the code, this was
doen to faciliate de-bugging ( if needed ) for anyone not using other tools like
pdb, iPython, etc...

Feel free to remove the print statements at will.


CREDITS and ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
----------------------------
www.stackoverflow.com

https://docs.python.org

www.google.com

http://jsonlint.com

http://www.giantflyingsaucer.com/  - Chad Lung, who continues to be an
incredible mentor on all things tech and I am forever grateful.


CHANGE LOG
---------
N/A


AUTHORS
-------
Claudia Ventresca


CONTACT INFO
------------
Feel free to contact me via this github account to disucuss potential business
opportunities.

Commit message:

Made updates and changes to the README file.

README.md, after:

CONFIGURATION INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------------
This project is meant to be a small stand alone scrip with no specific
configuration requirement other than having Python 2.7 intalled and running.


INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS
-------------------------
A 'requirements.txt' has been included ( as good practice ), but has been left
empty on purpose, since the script 'process_new_contacts.py' uses all facilities
from the Python standard library and on additional packages will have to be
installed, locally, for the script to work successfully.


A 'test-requirements.txt' has been included ( as good practice ).  These
packages are meant to be installed only in a local, testing environment, and not
meant to be part of the production stack requirements.  These are not necessary
to run the unittests, but thought I should inclue reference to nose, pep8, and
pylint.


OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS
----------------------
The 'process_new_contacts.py' script is designed to be executed at the command
line, but the feature which allows you to pass parameters at the command line
has been disabled.  It is commented out on the code ( It has one known bug,
which is detailed in the "KNOWN BUGS" section below. ), please feel free to
activate it an use it at will.

The 'input_file' and 'output_file' variables have been hard-coded as such:

    input_file = 'new_contacts.csv'
    output_file = 'new_contacts.json'

To run the code make sure the sample file ( 'new_contacts.csv' ) included with
the project is in the same directory as the python script
( 'process_new_contacts.py').  To execute the script simply type this at the
command line:

    $ python process_new_contacts.py

If all goes well the first time you run the script, you should see that a new
file ( '' ) has been added to the working directory.  This new file contains the
new JSON generated by the script.  Everytime you run the script it will over-
write the contents of this file; if you delete the out-put file before re-
running the script, it will create a new out-file.

To see the contents in the out-put file change, simply modify the contents in
the in-put file.


WHAT the CODE DOES
------------------
The script takes and existing comma delimed file and iterates through its
records, applies various rules to determine if the record is valid, and converts
and dumps only valid records to a JSON object.

Sample data from the csv file looks like this:

    Julian, Fanning, 82820, 555 11111 11111111, red
    Earlene Merryman, blue, 86258, 305 987 8362
    Theodora Whipkey, red, 54450, 808 633 1734
    Butterfield, Kelsi, (967)-196-4953, yellow, 05644
    Mccaster, Fatimah, (854)-345-7518, gray, 57693
    Mirian, Hankey, 22172, 180 739 1295, aqua marine
    Reinaldo, Vandermeer, 76589, 751 665 5618, gray
    Theo Parrish, green, 60128, 423 334 3136
    0.429926275625
    c

The resulting JSON object is then dumped to a file, and looks like this:

    {
    "errors": [
    5,
    7,
    16,
    31,
    39,
    40,
    43,
    45,
    46,
    47,
    49,
    50,
    58,
    59
    ],
    "entries": [
         {
          "middle": " ",
          "firstname": "Noah",
          "color": "yellow",
          "lastname": "Moench",
          "telephone": "2326952394",
          "zipcode": "123123121"
         },
         {
          "middle": " ",
          "firstname": "Ria",
          "color": "aquamarine",
          "lastname": "Tillotson",
          "telephone": "1969105548",
          "zipcode": "97671"
         },
         ...
        ]
    }

The generated JSON object can be validated via wwww.jsonlint.com


KNOWN BUGS
----------
In scritp 'processs_new_contacts.py' the breaks in the following code were
causign the script to not run.  The were commented out but not removed as they
should be there.

    if len(clean_r) < 4 or len(clean_r) > 5:
        print('This record is not the valid length. It will not be processed.')
        print('Here is the value you passed: ' + str(len(clean_r)))
        #break  TODO: COME BACK TO THIS!!!

    *********

    if len(name) < 1 or len(name) > 3:
        #print(len(name))
        #print(name)
        print('This name is not the valid length. \
               It will not be processed.')
        print('Here is the name you passed: ' + str(name))
        # break

    *********

    elif len(clean_r[p]) == 10:
        one_r['telephone'] = clean_r[p]
        #print('telephone: ' + str(one_r['telephone']))
        #print(one_r)
    else:
        print('this record does not contain a valid phone number, \
               zip code, or color. It will not be processed.')
               print('Here is the value you passed: ' + str(clean_r[p]) + "\n")
        #break from processing the remaining positions on the list
        #when one of the values passed isn't valid
        #break

The reason why they should be there is that the current logic will not process a
record if one or more of the elements being passed fails the validation.  The
break here ensures the rest of the record isn't iterated through, because that
is a waste of CPU cycles ( though that is negligable when processing a file this
size, it does make a difference whe processing larger data files, or processing
data on across multiple physical and memory nodes ).  Even though the breaks are
commented out the record will not be passed to the final JSON object for
comsumption by a client.

Sample output to the console for each record that fails to process looks like
this:

    Record is not a valid length.
    [5]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31]
    Record is not a valid length.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Record is not a valid length.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Record is not a valid length.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45]
    Record is not a valid length.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46, 47]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46, 47, 49]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46, 47, 49, 50]
    Record is not a valid length.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46, 47, 49, 50, 58]
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    Color, Telephone, or Zipcode not valid.
    [5, 7, 16, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45, 46, 47, 49, 50, 58, 59]

The persistance of the data construct position ( e.g. [5] ), shows the record
number which has failed processing.  It is the last  number in this list which
will tell what current record failed as the messages are shown on the console.

The accompanying line tells what the issue was.  As you can see here the
'details need to be hasseled', as the message tells the data being validated by
this part of the code is not in the expected format, but it's hard to tell what
specific data type failed validation.

In addition, the validation algorithm should stop processing the immediate
record and move on to the next as soon as it finds an error.  Here, as you can
see, it finds an error but moves on to the next position in the data construct -
this is detailed as a bug in the "KNOW BUGS" section above.


TESTING METHODOLOGY
-------------------
The bulk of the unittests focus on testing the functionality in 'get_clean_data'
and 'process_contacts'; these funcitons are called by the 'process_contacts'.
The major data transformation scenarios are handled and documented in the tests
themselves.

Normally when testing a scrip like this I would use Mock methods handle the
parts of the test which have to do with opening files for data processing,
but since it's the methods outside of the 'process_contacts' function, I saw
it save for this small example to ommit the mocking from testing.  However, in
practice, this part of the code should be properly mocked and tested.


WAYS TO IMPROVE ON THIS CODE
----------------------------
(1) Currently the test coverage is at 72%.  I will be coming back to this
project shortly to get the coverage up to 100%.

(2) Fix known bugs detailed above in the "Known Bugs" section.

(3) Update the "WHAT THE CODE DOES" section of this README file so that it
explains a little bit more about the limitations and expectations whe processing
the project's accompanying csv file.

(4) Spelling. Probably fix spelling in this README file.  The more time I spend
coding the worse I seem to get at spelling. No matter how many times I proof, I
always miss something.


COPYRIGHT and LICENSING
-----------------------
Use and extend at will - credit the author.


TROUBLESHOOTING
---------------
All print statements were left commented out but still in the code, this was
doen to faciliate de-bugging ( if needed ) for anyone not using other tools like
pdb, iPython, etc...

Feel free to remove the print statements at will.


CREDITS and ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
----------------------------
www.stackoverflow.com

https://docs.python.org

www.google.com

http://jsonlint.com

http://www.giantflyingsaucer.com/  - Chad Lung, who continues to be an
incredible mentor on all things tech and I am forever grateful.


CHANGE LOG
---------
N/A


AUTHORS
-------
Claudia Ventresca


CONTACT INFO
------------
Feel free to contact me via this github account to disucuss potential business
opportunities.
